My indignation against the incident remains undiminished. But my interest was piqued by Yasuo Hayashi, who is on death row. He fled after killing eight people, the biggest number, in the Tokyo subway attack. Hayashi joined Aum without knowing exactly what he was getting into and committed murder after being brainwashed. I think capital punishment is the reasonable decision when we consider Japan’s penalty system and bereaved families’ anger and sorrow. But I fundamentally oppose capital punishment, and I felt a heavy sense of gloom when the death sentence was given. At that time I imagined the terror of being left alone on the other side of the moon where a Joe Blow unwittingly commits a felonious crime and ends up becoming a death row convict. I considered for years the meaning of this. This served as a starting point for my story.

It’s also concerned with the issue of fundamentalism. As the world becomes increasingly chaotic, simplified fundamentalism has been steadily gaining traction. It requires considerable effort to think by oneself in such a complicated situation. Therefore, most people borrow ready-made or off-the-cuff quotes made by others and pretend as if they are of their own making. This way of thinking tends to be connected with fundamentalism–all the more so when it is simplified. Such thinking isn’t healthy–it’s like junk food that gives you a quick burst of energy but isn’t good for your health. In these times, it’s difficult to enhance one’s spirituality by yourself.

And you know, if that’s what comes to me, maybe there’s something right about that – something from the deep subconscious [that resonates with] the reader. So now the reader and I have a secret meeting place underground, a secret place in the subconscious. And in that place, maybe it’s absolutely right that fish should fall from the sky. It’s the meeting place that matters, not analysing the symbolism or anything like that. I’ll leave that to the intellectuals.

No, I’m not a storyteller. I’m a story watcher. Well, maybe once a month, I dream. But I usually don’t. I think it’s because I get to dream when I’m awake, so I don’t have to dream when I’m sleeping.

That Sunday was bright and clear, and the trees, the buildings, and the shop windows sparkled beautifully in the spring sunlight. That’s when it hit me. I was going to win the prize. And I was going to go on to become a novelist who would enjoy some degree of success. It was an audacious presumption, but I was sure at that moment that it would happen. Completely sure. Not in a theoretical way but directly and intuitively. 

I was a black sheep in the Japanese literary world. Being born just after the war, we grew up in American culture: I was listening to jazz and American pop, watching American TV shows – it was a window to another world. But anyway, by and by I got my own style. Not Japanese or American style – my style.

It’s my realism. I like Gabriel García Márquez very much, but I don’t think he thought of what he wrote as magic realism. It was just his realism. My style is like my eyeglasses: through those lenses, the world makes sense to me. Owning a jazz club, life was so disorderly and confusing – going to bed at three or four in the morning – so when I became a writer, I decided to live a very solid life: get up early, go to bed early, exercise every day. My belief is that I should be strong physically in order to write strong things. Those days are pleasurable days, so the more days, the more fun, and the more pages. I really don’t know why people like to read my long books. But I am very popular.

Thirty is right around the corner for me, but there isn’t a single thing that I feel like I’ve accomplished. It takes a year or two to translate these big books. So by the time I read the translation, I’ve forgotten everything. What’s going to happen? And then the translator calls me: ‘Hi, Haruki, how did you like my translation?’ And I reply: ‘This is a great story! I like it very much!

When I was in my teens, in the 1960s, that was the age of idealism. We believed the world would get better if we tried. People today don’t believe that, and I think that’s very sad. People say my books are weird, but beyond the weirdness, there should be a better world. It’s just that we have to experience the weirdness before we get to the better world. That’s the fundamental structure of my stories: you have to go through the darkness, through the underground, before you get to the light.

Exactly 40 years ago in May I received the Gunzo Award for New Writers. I believe the award ceremony was on May 8. It was held at the Dai-ichi Hotel in Shimbashi in Tokyo.

I had a turning point every 10 years. And at each point, my writing style and the type of stories changed. I was never bored with writing. There was always a new goal. I think that was a good thing.

The first thing I had was the title. It comes, of course, from Mozart's opera "Don Giovanni," but I was attracted by the strange, restless resonance of the words "Killing Commendatore" ("Kishidancho Goroshi") and I wondered if I could write a story set in Japan with that title. This is where it all began.

It was also the case with "Kafka on the Shore." I first came up with the title, then I started thinking of what kind of story I could create, and then I start writing. That's why it takes a lot of time. I think "Norwegian Wood" was probably the only book where that was not the case. It didn't have a title until the very end.

And, this time for "Killing Commendatore," I wondered if I could include somewhere elements of the story "Nise no Enishi" ("Fate Over Two Generations") from (18th century writer) Ueda Akinari.

I have seen several mummies on my travels in the northeastern Tohoku region. I also read a book that I happened upon in a used bookstore in Kyoto, which explained how mummies are made, and so forth.

I like Akinari, especially the story "Nise no Enishi." It's about finding out that a self-mummified monk had become a good-for-nothing guy after he is dug up and resuscitated. Ueda Akinari was cynical about the world, and so he wrote such perverse stories. They are not your usual supernatural stories.

My father's home is a Buddhist temple of the Jodo-shu (The Pure Land School) in Kyoto. Sure enough, when he died, a priest of the school recited a Buddhist sutra. I spoke to the priest and found out that his temple's grounds had Akinari's tomb, and I asked him if he'd show it to me. A crab was engraved on it. When I asked why, he told me that Akinari -- always the cynic -- asked as a dying wish that his tomb be engraved with something that could only walk sideways.

The temple apparently took care of Akinari to some extent in his later years.

The theme of my stories tends to become naturally about exploring the unconscious or subconscious...the bottom of the conscious mind. As we delve deeper into the conscious mind, we find all the way at the very bottom a grotesque world of dark creatures. Ultimately, we can only depend on our instincts to figure out what to pull out from this darkness, right? We have no choice but to sharpen all facets of our awareness and surrender ourselves to our instincts. We cannot depend on logic or on previous examples because, in a sense, that would be dangerous.

In "A Wild Sheep Chase," it was "Sheep Man". In "The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle," it was the other world through the well. In "Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World," it was "INKlings." And now we have "the Commendatore."

If he were too big, it would be difficult to work with him and he would appear menacing. Since he's small, he's compact, and it's easy to focus our attention on him and handle him. Everything becomes proportionally smaller. He is a presence but separate from daily life.

That's true that there hasn't been one like the Commendatore who appears many times throughout the story.

That's exactly right, but I don't think it's feasible to ascribe only one definite meaning to him. I thought about this after I finished writing the novel, but I think the Commendatore is a composite of the main characters' alter egos. He is perhaps like a mirror reflecting the different sides of each character. Along with that, he may also be a historical link or a messenger from the past. However, all of these are possibilities and even I don't know what is correct. We can only leave it up to the readers to think about.

I won't say that he is a good being but he is not a bad one. He is, I believe, a "guide" who has gone way beyond those types of values. And he is not something that is visible to everyone. He can only be seen by those who can see.

Translators really had a hard time deciding how to translate those words.

That's right. It also feels a bit like a translation of a German philosophical work. "Aranai" seems like the German words "nicht sein" (not be). I've done translations for a long time, so I am used to fashioning words in various ways. Perhaps that's why they appear in my mind quite naturally. The resonance of a word is very important to me. It may also be because I am quite influenced by music.

It could be because I have an interest in exchanging "the interior" and "the exterior." For example, in this novel, the Commendatore -- who is supposed to be a westerner -- appears wearing Japanese-style clothes from the ancient Asuka period from the sixth to eighth century. That makes readers wonder and become intrigued by the dissonance. It wouldn't be a story if he appeared wearing exactly the type of clothes Don Giovanni would wear.

When I first started, there were many novels set in foreign countries. But I wasn't very attracted to them. I was more interested in what one might describe as the work of exchanging meanings, or a bartering of spirituality. It was almost impossible to do that with the established literary style, so it was necessary to rearrange the literary vocabulary.

I think it shows the possibility that an "Idea" or "concept," as embodied by the Commendatore clad in ancient Japanese clothes, can move across cultures despite their differences. On the other hand, even if you have the same concept, meanings may differ depending on the type of soil they are rooted in. While I am writing, I am interested in how they diverge and overlap.

I think it is the first time the word "kill" appears in the title of one of my books. "Norwegian Wood," for example, has a few characters who commit suicide, but these are people killing themselves. In that story, death, actual killing, has a very important meaning.

Entering "the end of the world" in "Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World" is the same thing as death. When the protagonist in "Kafka on the Shore" walks into the deep forest, he is walking into the world of death.

Obviously I'm referring to stories, but the physical sensations that arise during a murder are important. In "Kafka on the Shore," Johnnie Walker kills cats with a scalpel. The physical sensation of slashing is crucial as if it's actually tangible.

The act of killing is rebirth in a mythological sense. Something is killed, and something is reborn. There are the mythological stories of patricide. A new being is born by killing something. That is a story that appears often in mythology. For example, a new bud grows out of a dead body. There are stories like that in Japan's "Kojiki" ("Records of Ancient Matters)".

In the real world, we cannot kill flesh and blood people but people can experience "killing" vicariously through stories like "Killing Commendatore." This is a crucial role of a story, and in this particular story, "killing" the Commendatore that embodies the "Idea" is a necessary symbolic act.

Ever since I started writing my novels, I have strongly aspired to trigger physical responses in my readers through my words. For example, many people said they really wanted to drink beer after finishing "Hear the Wind Sing." As its author, that made me very happy.

In "Norwegian Wood" I wrote about physical sensations that occur during sex as realistically and straightforwardly as possible. I was disliked and criticized a lot because of that but realism that is tangible to the readers is extremely important to me. I couldn't write a story without it. Generally speaking, I feel that there are fewer modern Japanese novels that realistically describe physical sensations, unlike Raymond Carver's stories, all of which I translated. I have learned little by little from such writings.

I think it is important that the physical sensation of holding the knife, stabbing the other person, and feeling the splatter of blood can be conveyed to the readers directly through the story--only as a simulation, of course. Some things can only be brought to life through descriptions of physical matters.

As I had never done an oil painting, I wrote the novel by reading about painting in books. A few painters later told me when I asked that there were no mistakes in the novel. Paintings and stories both have the same basic principle of creating something from zero.

The plot moves forward greatly when the Commendatore is unearthed from the property where the protagonist lives. It's a story about excavating and resurrecting the past.

However deep you dig a hole to try to hide something, there's always a time when that something comes out. We live shouldering history and however hard we try to hide it, it will come out in the open. History, I believe, is a collective memory that we must bear.

It was a period when people still held vivid memories of killing each other, led by their national logic. I continue to be acutely conscious of the fact that, even now, war is not something far and remote. When people believe they are standing on firm ground today, they may find it is only soft mud.

I believe that a world of mysterious creatures in the deepest recesses of our minds, which I have gingerly and carefully treated in my writings, is gradually and quietly working its way through the internet, via social media, into the open.

One cannot help noticing in our daily lives, some indications of violence that lurk in the deepest, darkest recesses of our minds. Sometimes I fear that something from the past is resurrecting.

We novelists craft our stories freely. But the principle of natural ethics must exist within that freedom. It is the responsibility of novelists to provide concepts that will become basic standards, however weird and cruel the description of evil is.

When I was writing it, I felt that I must as a novelist create a story that would defeat the one that Shoko Asahara (leader of AUM Shinrikyo) told his followers. At the time when AUM was active, religion was powerful. But I believe that nowadays, social media rather than religion has a greater power to diffuse ideas and concepts more directly and strongly. I'm not saying that social media itself is evil, but we must not forget that this type of power still exists.

The violence in social media appears as fragmented pieces, lacking connectivity to each other. I personally believe that a story is better the longer it is. That's because at least it is not fragmented. There must be an axis of value consistent throughout. And it must stand the test of time.

Only novels can make people feel through words that they went through actual experiences. Depending on whether or not people experience those stories, their thoughts and ways of seeing the world should change. I want to write stories that will penetrate the heart. I have a lot of hope in the power that novels hold.

That's right. I hadn't realized that. Menshiki is an homage to Gatsby in Scott Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby."

Gatsby worked his way up from poverty to a life of glitz that attracts attention because that's his goal. In contrast, Mr. Menshiki lives an ordinary, calm life. Their personalities and characters differ. I only borrowed a setting from Gatsby.

Since there are a limited number of characters, the story wouldn't stick unless they give each other something. The person who actually made the pit in the property appear is Mr. Menshiki. Without him, there would be no story in the first place.

In that sense, communication has a very important meaning in this story. There was not that much communication among the characters in some of my novels in the past. They were accumulations of relationships between two people. The characters were pretty much isolated and many of them did not even have names. But as I continued to write, I was gradually able to write about multiple interactions. "Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage" is a novel where multiple people interact with each other.

It is quite an important point that different people come little by little to offer each other something of themselves. Before "Norwegian Wood," many of my novels do tend to ignore function of communication. But since then, I feel that I have created worlds where people cannot live without communication.

I started out writing first-person narratives but gradually moved to the third-person narrative.

"1Q84" is a long novel told in the third person. And once I finished writing it, I wondered again what I could create with a first-person narrator.

A monologue is easier to narrate in the first person. A first-person point of view can be written simply and unaffectedly, and readers can identify with the "I" easily. If readers can do that, it makes me happy as an author.

"The Great Gatsby" is also a first-person narrative. So is Raymond Chandler's "The Long Goodbye," which I like, and J.D. Salinger's "Catcher in the Rye." They are all books that I have translated. I wonder why.

The main point of the novel is that the protagonist, after going around in the dark, comes back to where he was to start over, just like a Japanese religious experience called tainai meguri. I wanted to indicate that at the outset, both to the readers and to myself.

Yes. Until now, in many of my stories, if you lost something, you did so forever. But I decided from the start that this would be about restoration. So it was important to me to add that announcement at the beginning of the book.

Mr. Menshiki does not know whether the young girl Mariye is his daughter or not.

Either to create ties with the outer world or not, he cannot decide exactly. He does not know himself whether he is committing to something or not. He seems to think that he grasps everything but in reality doesn't really understand. He keeps his balance and coolly wanders in his own limbo.

The main difference between the protagonist and Mr. Menshiki is that the former loves his wife. His feelings for her don't change even after she leaves. He thinks that he would want to start again from the beginning if she returns. He seeks that kind of commitment.

It is love, of course, but more than that, the trust is important. Perhaps that is what Mr. Menshiki lacks.

I believe that there is no restoration without going through the most profound darkness. Accepting someone who has returned is forgiveness. Forgiveness is an emotion that emerges for the first time only after one goes through a very dark place and comes out on the other side.

The sense of forgiveness is beyond distinctions like "goodness", "evil", "light" or "darkness". To obtain it, it is necessary to kill the "concept" of the Commendatore with his own hands. Only by doing so does one get "forgiveness," I feel.

What surprises me when I go overseas is that there are many young readers from their teens to their 20s. This is clear when comparing them to Japanese readers. I believe that foreign readers, including these young people, are seeking some type of freedom.

My writings are not written in the so-called literary fashion but are plain and free. To put it another way, it should be handy and useful as a good tool. That characteristic probably doesn't get lost even when my books are translated.

If you learn the tricks, you can use them to freely cut out meanings from things in your surroundings or emotions. Recently I feel that foreign readers are perhaps seeking that universal sense of freedom. Of course, this is only an opinion based on my intuition.

I don't recall going to (class) at university much. I got married while I was a student and somewhere along the way I started working (managing a jazz bar), so I didn't really have the time for it. But they allowed me to graduate after spending seven years here, so I think the university was quite lenient. I even had a professor who came to my jazz bar. The professor took pity on how busy I was, and gave me the credit for the class.

For my graduation thesis, I didn't purchase a single work to cite from and went ahead and filled up 100 pages of manuscript paper in a week. I just made it all up and wrote it without giving it much thought, and guess what, the professor gave me an A+. "You should walk the path of a writer," the professor advised me. At the time I thought the professor was out of his mind, but he was right. So I am very grateful. I think the atmosphere (at Waseda) was rather carefree and relaxed at that time, and it fitted well with my character.

After nearly 40 years of writing, there is hardly any space to put documents such as manuscripts and related articles, whether at my home or at my office. I don't have children, so I was also worried that the documents might become scattered after I've gone. I am extremely grateful that they will be taken care of in an archive at my alma mater. Nothing would make me happier than if such a facility were of use to those who want to study my works, whether Japanese or foreigners. I hope it will be the start of cultural exchange not just around my works but also of cultures.

My works have been translated into more than 50 languages, and I myself have also been doing translations (of foreign literature) in earnest. I feel strongly that language interactions have made me grow. I would have suffocated if I was only engaged in Japanese literature.

I would be very happy if, eventually, I could establish a scholarship (for researchers). Ideally, it would be great if we can create a space resembling a study filled with my collection of vinyl records and books, and hold concerts there with the records. I would love to be actively involved myself.

I used to frequent the university's Theatre Museum to look at old scripts. When I didn't have money to go watch movies, I would construct the images in my mind. Such an experience has helped my writing. That kind of place, where people can just drop by, is necessary at university.

Thirty-seven years ago was when the movie (of my debut novel) "Hear the Wind Sing" was made. This time, (the donation of my archives) is very important to me so I felt the need to explain it properly.

I started thinking about it four to five years ago. Waseda is my alma mater and I thought that this is what I felt most comfortable with. I also considered various universities (overseas), but came to the conclusion that having it in Japan would be most appropriate after all.

I have over 10,000 vinyl records, which I have collected over the past half century and more. Since I worked hard on collecting them, I hope they will be kept together in one place. As for books, they will only be those related to my work. Books that I've translated, my books (that have been published abroad) and books that are important to me. I'm still alive and still working, so of course I can't hand them all over in one go. I hope to be able to move them here little by little.

It felt quite nostalgic when I looked at the issue of (magazine) Gunzo when I won the Gunzo Prize for New Writers (with "Hear the Wind Sing"). As I read my own comments back then, I felt I was really young at the time. If anyone would be interested in reading that sort of material, I would like to make it available.

I don't think I have the one for "Hear the Wind Sing," since I sent it (to the publisher) without keeping a copy for myself. The one for "Norwegian Wood" was written on a college notebook when I was in Europe. As the first draft, I think that one is very valuable. If I find it I would like to donate it.

It would be more convenient for everything to be kept in one place. In the United States, universities have archives for individual authors and if you go there, you can ask to see the manuscripts. I thought that's a fabulous idea.

For a number of my works, I have saved versions along the way as the drafts were revised. I don't really want to show them to anyone, but I guess those doing research might be interested in them.

There won't be anything about love-hate relationships. I would like to donate correspondence with other authors in the form of pleasantries, as long as they wouldn't cause inconvenience to others.

It's like opening the window to inhale a different stream of air, to see a different form of scenery. I felt strongly about that. Also, I very much wanted to do something different from what my parents, who were both experts in Japanese literature, did. I really love working on translations, the process in which one language is switched into another language on an equivalent basis. Even now, I don't think I am doing it for work, I am just doing it as a hobby. I think (doing translations) was extremely beneficial for my writing.

I start working around 4 a.m. or 4:30 a.m. but the night before, just as if I am going on a school outing, I select vinyl records that I want to listen to the following day and place them by my pillow. My joy is to work while listening to those records.

I am glad all of you were nice and pleasant. I thought there would be more difficult questions!

It was a long time ago, in 1973 or 1974. It's thirty years ago. I don't have an accurate memory about that paper. It was not written to prove something. I just stated what I had in my mind at that time, that the feeling of movement is very characteristic in American culture, especially in movies and novels. Americans are seeking a frontier, or looking for a terra incognita. They keep moving most of the time. In other words, it seems that they are afraid of stasis. I think that is a merit and a weak point of American culture. That is what I felt as a student, and so I wrote it down in three or four days. [Laughs.] And I got an A-plus.

My professor told me that I could be a writer. I was surprised to hear that because I didn't think I could be a writer. I had very little faith in myself, so I thought that she was joking. So when I found myself writing something when I was twenty-nine years old, I was surprised. I didn't expect to write anything, but the professor was right, I guess. But, you know, its just writing, just papers. It doesn't mean a lot to me.

He didn't look like a writer. He looked like an ordinary man. He used to be a factory worker and he used to be a janitor and he used to be a salesman. In any case, he didn't look like an author to me. [Laughs.] I felt I didn't look like an author at that time either. I used to be one of those ordinary people. I worked so hard through my twenties. I'm from a practical family. After graduating from college and university, I became a blue-collar worker and I worked physically hard for seven or eight years with my wife. They were hard days. So in the first place I could feel he was the same kind of person as I was. To write something, to create something, it's hard work. We are happier being a writer than just a worker, just a laborer. We appreciated it very much. I could feel the joy of writing from his attitude, from his way of speaking, from everything. He was very humble. He was not very arrogant at all. I felt I could trust him as a writer, as a person. That was a very great thing. He was the first person in whom I could conceive of that feeling. Of course, his writing, his style, is very impressive to me. I guess I didn't learn things technically from him because our styles are different. His style is basically realistic and mine is not. I'm more surrealistic, but what we are doing is very similar. It isn't easy to explain the similarity and the difference. We are both writing fiction with easy words but we are looking for the deeper story within those easy words, so we are doing the same thing. And he was very sincere and very hard working, so those are the reasons why I felt he was a friend and comrade.

Kazuo Ishiguro was born in Japan and then he went to England and stayed. While he insists that he cannot speak Japanese at all, his wife says he can speak good Japanese. [Laughs.] But I think he doesn't want to speak Japanese anymore, especially in Japan, because his Japanese is not sufficient for him. I am interested in his cultural background because he is Japanese - a hundred percent. But he chose to stay in England. There are some contradictions in him. I can feel it when I read his books. Its very strange because when he writes about Japan or Japanese society, it is as if a foreigner is describing Japanese culture. But when he writes about British things, like a butler or an aristocrat, it's like he's looking at British society through the eyes of Japanese people. The British characters he writes about look like Japanese people. It's very strange. That is what I'm interested in, those contradictions. Of course he is looking for his own identity as a Japanese writer who lives in England.  My own opinion is that most of us are looking for our own identity. We are holding our own contradictions. His own approach to the world could be generalized. That's what I feel from his books. What he's trying to do is very important for literature. It's a very difficult and serious thing. I admire his attitude and his skill.

I read that book when I was sixteen or seventeen. [Laughs.] I was impressed when I read it. But I wasn't thinking of writing something myself at that time; I just enjoyed reading it. It's kind of strange but I didn't reread the book after that. I put it in the bookshelf and it stayed there all the time. But that book is very important to me. It's great because it's very honest. It has a beautiful style and it has a drive. I was asked to translate it a couple of years ago and I did it. I enjoyed translating it very much. It was fun, just fun. But I don't think I was influenced by the book strongly. Some people think that I was influenced by it, but the fact is I just loved it.

The one reason, the biggest reason, is I didn't have to be here. I am a writer. I could work anywhere in the world. The second reason is I felt that I was not loved by people here. [Chuckles.] I was so different from other writers here. I was a black sheep in the literary world of Japan. Readers loved me and they read my books very eagerly and enthusiastically. But people in the literary world didn't appreciate my work or love me. Some people were attacking me. They said I was destroying the tradition of Japanese literature. That is what I did. [Laughs.] It's constructive destruction. I had faith that I was doing the right thing. But the noises were big, so big, that I just wanted to get out. I wanted to write books in quiet surroundings. That's why I chose Europe in the first place. I had a friend in Rome. She invited us to come so we went to Greece first, then  Rome; I wrote two or three books while I was staying in Europe. So I think it was a good decision to move to Europe. I didn't want to be spoiled by the fame. I was getting famous when I left Japan in 1986 or 1987. Some people thought of me as a cult author and I didn't want to be spoiled by those things. I wanted to be alone and I wanted to look at myself sincerely. I was nobody in Europe. These days my books are translated into several European languages, but not then. I could be anonymous.

Yes and no. It's not easy to live in a foreign country. People are different. Customs are different. Foods are different. It wasn't easy for us to live in Europe. But I felt I was free at least. That was good, very good. So life in foreign countries fitted me well. But nobody missed us. [Laughs.] And I did not miss anyone. I just missed Japanese food, like tofu or soba. That's all.

In the 1960s, when I was a teenager, it wasn't easy to go abroad. Now it's easy to go to America. It's cheap. But in the 1960s it was just a dream to go to foreign countries. I was looking at American tv shows and I was reading American books. American culture was everywhere around us. But we could not go to America, or any other country. So there was a kind of frustration. But I enjoyed that frustration very much. I thought of it as a fiction. I enjoyed it as a fiction so that was fun to me. And after a while I was not interested in going there. I didn't have to go there because I could see America through the window, my own fictional window. That was great. That was and is my disposition, to fictionalize everything in my own room. In the 1960s, American culture was so bright and strong. What we wore was Ivy League style - buttoned-down shirts. [Laughs.] What we listened to was American music - the Beach Boys and Elvis Presley. After 1965, the British invasion began and the Beatles and the Rolling Stones came. But before that, all the music was American music, rock and roll. So American culture was strong. I didn't choose it. It was there. I'm from Kobe. It's a port city. There are many foreign sailors around the city. The used bookstore sold paperbacks that  the sailors brought in. They were so cheap. I started to read those paperbacks in English when I was a high school student. I loved it- reading in a foreign language. It was a new world to me.

The first places I lived in America were Princeton and Cambridge, Massachusetts. They are fictional worlds. [Chuckles.] They are very special places, very Ivy League. But afterwards, I drove from Boston to Long Beach, California. I saw that it is a very big country. Different parts have their own cultures. They are so different from each other. It's an extreme opinion, but the country of the United States is kind of fictional. So my fictionalization of that country was not so wrong. It might have been the right approach to America.

I found certain contradictions in America after living there for four or five years because I wanted to be independent. In America or in Europe, people are independent from the start. In Japan, that's not the case. I had to think about what I would become after being independent. Being independent is not the purpose in life. That is what I thought, especially in America. There should be some purpose in life as an independent person. That's a new concept in my life. In Japan, as a fiction writer, I was trying to make up my own fictional world. I was in my own world and I was by myself. You could say it is a kind of an escape. I didn't think it was an escape. I thought it was making up my own world here, this inner world in an outer world. But in America, I felt it wasn't enough. I felt I had to build up something more positive, more constructive. Then I started to write The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle. I think that novel is more positive and more constructive. In other words, I have changed a lot through writing that book. I am looking for a new image of myself, of my life. It's a turning point, I guess. I think it was good to go to America to live. Of course there are good sides and bad sides to America. So I looked at it through my own eyes. But America inspired me to be more positive. You cannot escape from society.

After those two tragedies - the earthquake and the sarin gas attack - I felt I had to go back to Japan and do something. But I had no concept of what I was going to do. I didn't have any defined genre. I felt that I would be able to find what I should do when I returned to Japan, when I was looking around the country standing on the ground. The first thing I did was Underground, but I don't think of it as nonfiction. It's not fiction, but its not nonfiction either. I want to define it as a collection of narratives. Those interviewees, those victims, they had their own narratives to tell. They were talking about the fact, but it is not the fact, a hundred percent. Those facts are coming through their own experiences. It's a narrative. They had been telling their narratives to many people before I met them. But they felt that they hadn't said enough because very few people had listened to their narratives sincerely. But I did. I listened to their stories very closely, very carefully, very warmly, very kindly. It's very hard. They appreciated my attitude. So they offered me their narratives. Nonfiction admires facts and truth, but mine does not. I admire their narratives. They are lively. They are fresh. They are honest narratives. That is what I wanted to collect. Some critics criticized me for not proving anything or separating fact from fiction. But I just wanted to collect these honest narratives. What they talked about wasn't necessarily the truth, but I didn't care. If they felt that way, that was the truth to me.

Yes. If some parts of their narratives were misinformation, it doesn't matter. Totalization of the information would make up the broad truth. I was impressed by their way of speaking; I was moved. That was quite a new experience for me, just to listen to other people's narratives. I changed a lot after that experience. I spent one whole year listening to their stories. It was tough work too. But I learned a lot. Then I started to write a collection of short stories regarding the earthquake. I set myself three rules before I started to write. The first was that the stories should be written in the third person. That was my first attempt at writing in the third person. The second was that the stories should be about the earthquake in Kobe, but without describing the earthquake directly. The third thing was that the stories shouldn't happen in or around Kobe. In other words, I was trying to write a story about the earthquake but not the earthquake itself. Not the people who suffered in the earthquake. It's a kind of challenge. I enjoyed those rules. I think it was good. What I wanted to describe was the aftermath, not the earthquake itself. What I wanted to write about was how people suffered from a distance. The suffering should be general, not only in Kobe, but also in this country and in the world. People feel that this ground is not solid. It can be turned upside down at any moment. When that book was translated and published in America, it was just after 9/11. 1 had many letters from American readers. You could feel the suffering from that "earthquake." The situation is the same. No ground is solid. That's a mutual feeling.

Yes, that's right. In 1995, people in Japan didn't have faith in the safety of Japanese society, economically and socially. The earthquake was just a symbol of those insecurities. The sarin gas attack too. So that sense of insecurity continues to apply, I guess. People say those ten years are a lost decade to Japan. I have the same feeling. This was a lost decade. Just like the experience of people in the 1930s in America. But we have to seek after a new value or principle of living. I think that is what I have been trying to do over the last ten years as a fiction writer.

It is difficult to define - what is evil? I don't think I can explain what is evil, but I can explain what is dangerous. Those two things might be similar in some places. When I am writing a story, I go down to the dark places, to the deep places, like the bottom of a well or a basement. It's dark and it's damp and it's sometimes dangerous. You cannot tell what is in that darkness. But I have to enter that darkness because that is what I feel when I am writing fiction. I find good things and bad things and dangerous things sometimes, and I describe them. Evil figures in my books, like Boris in The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle. They are what I saw when I entered the darkness. I can feel it. I can feel their breath. I am scared sometimes. I am trying to describe those things honestly. I don't know what it means, but I can feel them. In Underground, of course Asahara, the cult leader, is an evil figure. He's pure evil. I can say that. He destroyed many people for ... I don't know what. He's evil or has an evil mind. I don't know. What he was trying to do was destroy this system, this society. He was weird and twisted. He had a darkness, a big void within himself. I could feel while I was writing that book that this guy is evil, pure evil. That was so scary. After publishing Underground, I was trying to find what is this evilness. Asahara is a very exceptional character. He's mad, of course. But we might have our own insanity, or madness, those kinds of indecent things, in ourselves. I felt I had to find those things in my own darkness. That is what I have been trying to do after that book. Writing fiction is just a dream. You just experience the procedure of the dream. You cannot change the story line. You have to do what you have to do just to experience the dream, totally freely. We fiction writers can do that awake. We don't have to sleep when we want to see the dream. We can continue intentionally to see those dreams as long as we want. When I concentrate on writing, I can dream as long as I want. I can continue dreaming the next day and the next day, intentionally. That is a great experience, but dangerous sometimes because we are descending deeper and deeper, darker and darker. So if you are not trained, it's dangerous. If you are not strong physically and mentally, it could be dangerous. I think that is what I am doing, more or less. If you had a nightmare, you would cry and wake up. But we have to endure. We have to keep on experiencing the evil nightmare. In fact, I cannot change the story because the story is independent. What I have to do is to follow that dream, that story, as it is going on, advancing. So as I follow those story lines I don't know where I am going to go in that darkness.

What I stated in that book is that the Aum gas attack is a kind of conflict between their narratives and our narratives. Their narratives are cult narratives. They have their own strong-minded narrative and it's very persuasive. It  attracts many intelligent young people to their cult. They believe in the kingdom of the beautiful soul. They attacked this ordinary, conventional world. They think of it as a corrupted system and believe they have to destroy that system. That's why they attacked the subway - to make a disturbance. They did it because they believed in their narrative. They think that this narrative is right, definitively, absolutely, and the other worlds narrative is wrong and corrupted and should be destroyed. Sometimes, we who live in this conventional, chaotic world wonder whether our narrative might be wrong, might be corrupted. But this is all that we have. It's just like democracy, or it's just like the marriage institution. They are not perfect, of course. But that's what we have in our hands. It's tested. I just wanted to know what kind of narratives we have in our hands. That's what I was trying to do by collecting those actual, real narratives. They are not beautiful stories, but they are real things. And I collected them in the book, Underground.  After I wrote Underground, I met cult people and talked with them. They are very talkative and they speak very fluently. They are clever and intelligent people, more interesting than real world people. But I forgot almost everything of their stories. They are very shallow and superficial. When the strong wind comes, they are all gone. But the stories of the real world people stay. They have their own substance; they have their own weight, and they stay. They are not so smart or so clever. Their stories are sometimes boring but they stay. I noticed that after I did sixty-something interviews. They stay in my mind, in my heart, in my soul: They stay right now. What I learned from that experience is that if a story is strong it stays, even if it's awkward, even if it's not smart. I think I've answered that question. Literally, I like going down to that dark hole where I write fiction. Those images are very haunting. They don't leave me. Descending. There are so many good things in darkness. Some people say that it is Jungian. But I haven't read much of his work. I am not interested in that  kind of psychoanalytical thing. It would be a distraction. I am a fiction writer. I trust my own instinct, not the theory. That is why I don t read Jungs books much. Some people say there is a similarity between my fiction and his work. It might be true. But I have reached this situation through my own world, not Carl Jung s world. When I start to write fiction, I have no time or plot or anything. I have some scene or some fragment or some conversation or some ending. I sit at my desk and start to write fiction. I do not know what kind of story I will write at all. I just follow the story in my mind. I trust my unconsciousness, my unconscious world. Trust is everything, trusting the world. To be spontaneous is very important to me when I am writing - to be free and to be spontaneous. You could say its a kind of therapy for me, writing. I'm going down into the depths of my own mind to find many things. Im not healed, you know. Its not a healing. Its just finding myself more deeply, more honestly. Your dreams don't betray you. It just comes from the inside. Fiction is the same thing. It comes from my own inner world. Readers can share that world. Thats a great thing, I think. And they are paying money to share it. [Laughs.] That's great.

When I wrote Hard-Boiled Wonderland, I had no idea how to finish it. There are four choices. The shadow stays and the protagonist goes. The protagonist stays and the shadow goes. Both of them stay. Both of them go. I couldn't choose at all. When I reached the final chapter, I was totally at a loss how to end the story. I tried three versions and after all, I cannot remember why I took the present conclusion. So it could have been different. [Laughs.] I chose that conclusion storywise. I felt that conclusion was the most natural at the time. But if I were to rewrite that book at this moment, maybe I would choose a different conclusion. I don't know. It's not a final conclusion. It could be different. Nothing is conclusive. Its changeable. I always feel that everything is changeable in my fiction.  Regarding annihilation, I guess I have been changing. When I was younger, I think I had a tendency to go somewhere else, leaving this real world. As a fiction writer, I could find a very quiet, sacred place in myself. I could escape from this realistic, chaotic world. That was my dream. But I have changed since then. I am getting more positive, and the stories I write have been changing a lot these past twenty years. I wrote Hard-Boiled Wonderland in 1985 or 1986, close to twenty years ago. I wrote The Wild Sheep Chase in 1983, more than twenty years ago. So I have changed. But in America, my books have been published out of chronology. So its confusing. Readers cannot follow my progress, my career. The Wild Sheep Chase and Hard-Boiled Wonderland are books I wrote when I was in my early and mid-thirties. Its quite a long time ago. I dont know why but when I was in my early thirties I just wanted to go somewhere else. I was just curious about what kind of world I had in myself. But now, I think that was dangerous sometimes. Its not the place to escape. I have to build up some positive things in it. That's the difference, I guess. I think I have matured as a fiction writer. I was just curious. What kind of world do I have in my mind? I was just like a little boy finding a big barn. What is in this barn? There are so many new and strange things in this barn. I was just a curious kid. [Laughs.] You know that feeling? 

In the early years of my career, I just hated to put names on my characters. Its too conventional, I felt. If I use the name, say, "Murakami Haruki," for one of my characters, mura means "village," kami means "upper." Haru means "spring," ki means "tree." Each word has its own image as a Chinese character. I wanted to avoid those characterizations. If I put the name in katakana, its more anonymous, as you say. Its a kind of symbol. Its a sign. Its just the same thing Franz Kafka did in The Trial with K. If the name of the character is K., it could be anybody. It could be you. It could be me. That is a symbolized message. But if I put the name K. or M. or F. today, its too much like Kafka. It is Kafka, so I cant do that. I didn t want to do that. So I use katakana names for my characters, mostly.

In Norwegian Wood, for example, the name of the protagonists friend is Kizuki. Its kind of a strange name in katakana. But my Chinese translator asked me one day, "What is the character of this Kizuki?" I had no idea. [Laughs.] So I said, "You can put Kizuki in any Chinese character you like!" But I had no idea what kind of character to put for Kizuki. I don t know; I still dont know . . . [Laughs.]

Its just an icon, you know. The character is my icon. I just wanted to use it as satire.

I dont understand why those books come out. The fact that my books are different from other Japanese writers may be one reason. Since it is difficult to read my novels in the way other novels are read, perhaps some readers read those books in order to look for clues. My novels are not realistic in certain places, so many people want to know what they mean. I am not interested in what is meant or symbolized by them; I would like people to read my work for the story first. But there are many people who feel differently, and like to buy such explanatory material.

Since I dont read those books myself, I dont understand what they're about. I have communicated before with readers on the Internet. My readers like to read my novels frequently, at least three or four times. They reread them several times to try and find out what the novels mean. I am very pleased with those readers, but I dont welcome those who depend on manuals to explain fiction. I certainly don t appreciate the way in which "Haruki Murakami" is used as a brand name. However, there is an eternal relation between writers and critics. Honestly speaking, writers dont need critics, though it may sound  arrogant. Of course writers need readers and readers need critics. So there is some correlation among the three. I am not particularly conscious of being popular or famous, although it might sound strange. I take the subway, shop, walk around, come home, and eat dinner. I lead an ordinary life. I am conscious of being a writer only when writing at a desk, but not on other occasions. If Haruki Murakami is used as a brand name, it functions as an independent thing, separate from myself. I don't have anything to do with it and try to distance myself from it intentionally.

Usually, I write nine or ten revisions of each book. I pass the draft to Yoko at the third or fourth revision and she reads it and she tells me her opinion. And we discuss it for a couple of days. Then I start to rewrite again. When I have rewritten it, I pass it to her again and she tells me her opinion again. This happens three or four times. It is a very tough job, especially if its a big book like The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle or something like that. But she likes to read my books. She's very candid.

We are husband and wife and we have lived together for more than thirty years and we know each other very well. She has a very strong critical mind. I'm very lucky about that. She's fair. She's my wife and she's on my side of course but as a reader, she's neutral and independent. That is what I mean by fair. She cannot create. She's not that type. But as a critic, she's first rate. Sometimes, she's very hard. Sometimes, I feel very unpleasant or uncomfortable. When she tells me her opinions, most of them are critical. She advises me to rewrite, sometimes a very big part of the book. Sometimes, I agree. Other times, I don't agree. Sometimes we quarrel ... or discuss ... or dispute. And sometimes this takes all night. Usually I go to bed early but sometimes we will be up for five or six hours at night, till dawn. I do that because that is a very important and critical thing to do. I am very lucky because she's my first reader and she's my editor.

I have had some good editors in my life, but they come and they go because they belong to the company, to the publishing house. Sometimes, I don't know which side they are on, on my side or on the company's side. Especially in Japan. The publishing house is a very strong company. It's a system. They belong to that system. At the same time, she or he is my editor. Things are kind of complicated sometimes. But Yoko is my wife and she s on my side. She stays, for better or worse. [Laughs.] Shes a stable point. She's always there.

I had my own home page for three or four months at a time because there were so many replies and three or four months was the limit. I had to spare so much time to maintain that website. When I opened it, I looked at it very eagerly and enthusiastically. If I got 6,000 mails, I'd send a reply to 1,500. It's tough work. The most interesting questions are usually from teenagers or twenty-something boys or girls. When they find out I am their father's or mother s age, they are so surprised. They ask me, "Why do you know what I feel? My father and mother don't understand what I am thinking. But you seem to know what I am feeling. It is very strange." At the same time, their father and mother are reading my books. In one family, they are passing the books between parents and children. I think that's good. I am very glad to hear that. Sometimes, they discuss my books together. They want to know why their children or their parents like that book.

Yes, but . . . this form, fiction, has more than two thousand years of tradition and experience, so we have always been challenged by something and survived. But sometimes, I feel that the nineteenth century was a better period because they had no tv, no moving pictures, no Internet, no game center, no Walkman. All they could do was go to the opera or read a book. And the longer the better. The opera is three or four hours, whereas with Dostoevski and Dickens you have to spend months to read them. I miss those periods. But anyway, we have to survive this period, whether we like it or not. Some authors complain that people don't read books anymore, as before. But I don't complain. This is the period we are living in. We have to survive. I think a certain percentage of people read books even if we have strong competitors. My book Norwegian Wood sold two million copies. But my core readership is usually between 200,000 and 300,000. They will read my books very enthusiastically, very seriously. Others, one million or so, they are just floating readers. They dont read books usually. But if there is a bestseller, they are interested in what kind of book it is so they buy that book and read it and don't return. But 200,000 to 300,000 people read my books always. I respect that figure very much. I trust in them . . . and I can live on that of course. [Chuckles.] We have to compete with other media and its possible for writers to survive and to live. In Japan, many of my readers read my books on the train when they are commuting. While commuting its prohibited to talk on the cell phone. You cannot listen to music on a Walkman because its noisy. And you cannot see tv on the train. So, its books! The book is a very primitive, very simple medium . . . but because of its simplicity it has possibility. The best answer is the commuting train. I found that when I was interviewing the people from the sarin gas attack- those people are commuters- sometimes it takes two hours one way. That adds up to four hours a day. You can read books four hours a day. That guy is quite a reader. So, I think, yes, we can survive.

I write my books in Japanese of course. And mostly I write about Japanese people living in Japan. So naturally I think I am a Japanese author who is writing Japanese novels. That's very natural to me. If somebody criticizes me for not being so Japanese, I dont have any idea . . . because it is very natural to me. I don t eat rice too much because I've lived in foreign countries for many years. I can live without rice or sushi. Even when I live in Japan, sometimes I forget to eat rice for a week and I forget to eat sushi for a couple of weeks. I don't notice. But some people think this is strange. If you are Japanese, you have to eat rice once a day, they say. But it is my liberty to eat rice or not. It's my life. I think its the same kind of thing. I don't listen to enka, Misora Hibari, or music like that. I don't listen to that music because I don't like it. And some people criticize me. You don't listen to Misora Hibari. You are not Japanese. But I don't mind because I prefer Schubert. That's my life.

Oh, yes, music helped me a lot. In my twenties I was running a jazz club and listening to jazz music from morning to midnight every day, seven days a week. The music soaked my mind and my body, every place of my body. It stayed. When I decided to write something when I was twenty-nine years old, I didn't know how to write it because I had no experience at all. I was not a good reader of Japanese literature so I didn't know how to write fiction. At one point, I thought I should write the book as if I was playing good music. What good music requires is good rhythm, good harmony, good melody line. Three things. Writing is the same- rhythm, harmony, and melody. Once I realized that, it got easier for me to write. I wrote that book, Hear the Wind Sing, just like I was playing an instrument. I think, even now, two good points of my writing are my sense of rhythm and sense of humor. For example, I like driving to Elvin Jones. When you look at his playing very carefully, his cymbal is just an anchor always making the same rhythm, very stable, very solid. The other two arms are going crazy - he's doing wild things- but the cymbal remains the same. That is what I want to do. You could say I was influenced very strongly by music. Many artists write fiction. Many musicians write fiction. But I think musicians are better fiction writers than artists because artists are very narcissistic. [Laughs.] Musicians keep on going, always. They are too busy to be narcissistic.

Death is not the opposite of life, but a part of it. 

If you remember me, then I don't care if everyone else forgets. There's no such thing as perfect writing, just like there's no such thing as perfect despair. 

Everything passes. Nobody gets anything for keeps. And that's how we've got to live.

Even chance meetings are the result of karma… Things in life are fated by our previous lives. That even in the smallest events there’s no such thing as coincidence.

By living our lives, we nurture death. True as this might be, it was only one of the truths we had to learn. What I learned from Naoko's death was this: no truth can cure the sorrow we feel from losing a loved one. No truth, no sincerity, no strength, no kindness can cure that sorrow. All we can do is see it through to the end and learn something from it, but what we learn will be no help in facing the next sorrow that comes to us without warning.

Look at the rain long enough, with no thoughts in your head, and you gradually feel your body falling loose, shaking free of the world of reality. Rain has the power to hypnotize.

Whatever it is you're seeking won't come in the form you're expecting. Life is not like water. Things in life don’t necessarily flow over the shortest possible route.

Even if we could turn back, we'd probably never end up back where we started. You are 27 or 28 right? It is very tough to live at that age. When nothing is sure. I have sympathy with you.

But who can say what's best? That's why you need to grab whatever chance you have of happiness where you find it, and not worry about other people too much. My experience tells me that we get no more than two or three such chances in a life time, and if we let them go, we regret it for the rest of our lives. What we call the present is given shape by an accumulation of the past.

If you only read the books that everyone else is reading, you can only think what everyone else is thinking.

Fact may not be truth, and truth may not be factual. The most important thing we learn at school is the fact that the most important things can’t be learned at school. Even castles in the sky can do with a fresh coat of paint.

Anyone who falls in love is searching for the missing pieces of themselves. So anyone who’s in love gets sad when they think of their lover. It’s like stepping back inside a room you have fond memories of, one you haven’t seen in a long time. The human heart is like a night bird. Silently waiting for something, and when the time comes, it flies straight toward it. I was always hungry for love. Just once, I wanted to know what it was like to get my fill of it -- to be fed so much love I couldn't take any more. Just once. No mistake about it. Ice is cold; roses are red; I'm in love. And this love is about to carry me off somewhere. The current's too overpowering; I don't have any choice. It may very well be a special place, some place I've never seen before. What matters is deciding in your heart to accept another person completely. When you do that, it is always the first time and the last.

Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional. But the absence of fighting or hatred or desire also means the opposites do not exist either. No joy, no communion, no love. Only where there is disillusionment and depression and sorrow does happiness arise; without the despair of loss, there is no hope. People’s memories are maybe the fuel they burn to stay alive. Why do people have to be this lonely? What's the point of it all? Millions of people in this world, all of them yearning, looking to others to satisfy them, yet isolating themselves. Why? Was the earth put here just to nourish human loneliness? Every one of us is losing something precious to us. Lost opportunities, lost possibilities, feelings we can never get back again. That’s part of what it means to be alive.

Painful is the stress when one cannot reproduce or convey vividly to others, however hard he tries, what he's experienced so intensely. In my case, the stronger is the intention to "write about a particular subject in a particular way," the harder it becomes to start writing and to express myself. This stress somewhat resembles the irritation one feels when he cannot describe to another person what he experienced so vividly and realistically in his dreams. All words I use to narrate my feeling of the moment fail incessantly to describe what I wish to, and then they begin to betray me.

People's memories are maybe the fuel they burn to stay alive. Whether those memories have any actual importance or not, it doesn't matter as far the maintenance of life is concerned. They are all just fuel. Advertising filler in the news paper, philosophy books, dirty pictures in a magazine, a bundle of ten-thousand-yen bills; when you feed them to fire, they are just paper. The fire isn't thinking 'oh This is Kant' or 'Oh This is Yomuri evening edition' or 'Nice tits', while it burns. To the fire, they are nothing but scraps of paper. It is the exact same thing. Important memories , not-so-important memories, totally useless memories : there is no distinction — they are all just fuel

There’s a wise saying that goes like this: A real gentleman never discusses women he’s broken up with or how much tax he’s paid. Actually, this is a total lie. I just made it up. Sorry! But if there really were such a saying, I think that one more condition for being a gentleman would be keeping quiet about what you do to stay healthy. A gentleman shouldn’t go on and on about what he does to stay fit. At least that’s how I see it.

As everybody knows, I’m no gentleman, so maybe I shouldn’t be worrying about this to begin with, but still, I’m a little hesitant about writing this book. This might come off sounding like a dodge, but this is a book about running, not a treatise on how to be healthy. I’m not trying here to give advice like, “Okay everybody — let’s run every day to stay healthy!” Instead, this is a book in which I’ve gathered my thoughts about what running has meant to me as a person.

Just a book in which I ponder various things and think out loud.

Somerset Maugham once wrote that in each shave lies a philosophy. I couldn’t agree more. No matter how mundane some action might appear, keep at it long enough and it becomes a contemplative, even meditative act. As a writer, then, and as a runner, I don’t find that writing and publishing a book of my own personal thoughts about running makes me stray too far off my usual path. Perhaps I’m just too painstaking a type of person, but I can’t grasp much of anything without putting down my thoughts in writing, so I had to actually get my hands working and write these words. Otherwise, I’d never know what running means to me.

Once, I was lying around a hotel room in Paris reading the International Herald Tribune when I came across a special article on the marathon. There were interviews with several famous marathon runners, and they were asked what special mantra goes through their head to keep themselves pumped during a race. An interesting question, I thought. I was impressed by all the different things these runners think about as they run 26.2 miles. It just goes to show how grueling an event a marathon really is. If you don’t keep repeating a mantra of some sort to yourself, you’ll never survive.

One runner told of a mantra his older brother, also a runner, had taught him which he’s pondered ever since he began “running. Here it is: Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional. Say you’re running and you start to think, Man this hurts, I can’t take it anymore. The hurt part is an unavoidable reality, but whether or not you can stand any more is up to the runner himself. This pretty much sums up the most important aspect of marathon running.

It’s been some ten years since I first had the idea of a book about running, but the years went by with me trying out one approach after another, never actually settling down to write it. Running is sort of a vague theme to begin with, and I found it hard to figure out exactly what I should say about it.

At a certain point, though, I decided that I should just write honestly about what I think and feel about running, and stick to my own style. I figured that was the only way to get going, and I started writing the book, bit by bit, in the summer of 2005, finishing it in the fall of 2006. Other than a few places where I quote from previous writings I’ve done, the bulk of this book records my personal lessons I’ve learned through actually putting my own body in motion, and thereby discovering that suffering is optional. They may not be lessons you can generalize, but that’s because what’s presented here is me, the kind of person I am.

I’m on Kauai, in Hawaii, today, Friday, August 5, 2005. It’s unbelievably clear and sunny, not a cloud in the sky. As if the concept clouds doesn’t even exist. I came here at the end of July and, as always, we rented a condo. During the mornings, when it’s cool, I sit at my desk, writing all sorts of things. Like now: I’m writing this, a piece on running that I can pretty much compose as I wish. It’s summer, so naturally it’s hot. Hawaii’s been called the island of eternal summer, but since it’s in the Northern Hemisphere there are, arguably, four seasons of a sort. Summer is somewhat hotter than winter. I spend a lot of time in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and compared to Cambridge—so muggy and hot with all its bricks and concrete it’s like a form of torture—summer in Hawaii is a veritable paradise. No need for an air conditioner here—just leave the window open, and a refreshing breeze blows in. People in Cambridge are always surprised when they hear I’m spending August in Hawaii. “Why would you want to spend summer in a hot place like that?” they invariably ask. But they don’t know what it’s like. How the constant trade winds from the northeast make summers cool. How happy life is here, where we can enjoy lounging around, reading a book in the shade of trees, or, if the notion strikes us, go down, just as we are, for a dip in the inlet.

Since I arrived in Hawaii I’ve run about an hour every day, six days a week. It’s two and a half months now since I resumed my old lifestyle in which, unless it’s totally unavoidable, I run every single day. Today I ran for an hour and ten minutes, listening on my Walkman to two albums by the Lovin’ Spoonful—Daydream and Hums of the Lovin’ Spoonful—which I’d recorded on an MD disc.

Right now I’m aiming at increasing the distance I run, so speed is less of an issue. As long as I can run a certain distance, that’s all that’s all I care about. Sometimes I run fast when I feel like it, but if I increase the pace I shorten the amount of time I run, the point being to let the exhilaration I feel at the end of each run carry over to the next day. This is the same sort of tack I find necessary when writing a novel. I stop every day right at the point where I feel I can write more. Do that, and the next day’s work goes surprisingly smoothly. I think Ernest Hemingway did something like that. To keep on going you have to keep up the rhythm. This is the important thing for long-term projects. Once you set the pace, the rest will follow. The problem is getting the flywheel to spin at a set speed—and to get to that point takes as much concentration and effort as you can manage.

It rained for a short time while I was running, but it was a cooling rain that felt good. A thick cloud blew in from the ocean right over me, and a gentle rain fell for a while, but then, as if it had remembered, “Oh, I’ve got to do some errands!,” it whisked itself away without so much as a glance back. And then the merciless sun was back, scorching the ground. It’s a very easy-to-understand weather pattern. Nothing abstruse or ambivalent about it, not a speck of the metaphoric or the symbolic. On the way I passed a few other joggers, about an equal number of men and women. The energetic ones were zipping down the road, slicing through the air like they had robbers at their heels. Others, overweight, huffed and puffed, their eyes half closed, their shoulders slumped like this was the last thing in the world they wanted to be doing. They looked like maybe a week ago their doctors had told them they have diabetes and warned them they had to start exercising. I’m somewhere in the middle.

It rained for a short time while I was running, but it was a cooling rain that felt good. A thick cloud blew in from the ocean right over me, and a gentle rain fell for a while, but then, as if it had remembered, “Oh, I’ve got to do some errands!,” it whisked itself away without so much as a glance back. And then the merciless sun was back, scorching the ground. It’s a very easy-to-understand weather pattern. Nothing abstruse or ambivalent about it, not a speck of the metaphoric or the symbolic. On the way I passed a few other joggers, about an equal number of men and women. The energetic ones were zipping down the road, slicing through the air like they had robbers at their heels. Others, overweight, huffed and puffed, their eyes half closed, their shoulders slumped like this was the last thing in the world they wanted to be doing. They looked like maybe a week ago their doctors had told them they have diabetes and warned them they had to start exercising. I’m somewhere in the middle.

I love listening to the Lovin’ Spoonful. Their music is sort of laid-back and never pretentious. Listening to this soothing music brings back a lot of memories of the 1960s. Nothing really special, though. If they were to make a movie about my life (just the thought of which scares me), these would be the scenes they’d leave on the cutting-room floor. “We can leave this episode out,” the editor would explain. “It’s not bad, but it’s sort of ordinary and doesn’t amount to much.” Those kinds of memories—unpretentious, commonplace. But for me, they’re all meaningful and valuable. As each of these memories flits across my mind, I’m sure I unconsciously smile, or give a slight frown. Commonplace they might be, but the accumulation of these memories has led to one result: me. Me here and now, on the north shore of Kauai. Sometimes when I think of life, I feel like a piece of driftwood washed up on shore.

As I run, the trade winds blowing in from the direction of the lighthouse rustle the leaves of the eucalyptus over my head.

I began living in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at the end of May of this year, and running has once again been the mainstay of my daily routine ever since. I’m seriously running now. By seriously I mean thirty-six miles a week. In other words, six miles a day, six days a week. It would be better if I ran seven days, but I have to factor in rainy days, and days when work keeps me too busy. There are some days, too, when frankly I just feel too tired to run. Taking all this into account, I leave one day a week as a day off. So, at thirty-six miles per week, I cover 156 miles every month, which for me is my standard for serious running.

In June I followed this plan exactly, running 156 miles on the nose. In July I increased the distance and covered 186 miles. I averaged six miles every day, without taking a single day off. I don’t mean I covered precisely six miles every day. If I ran nine miles one day, the next day I’d do only three. (At a jogging pace I generally can cover six miles in an hour.) For me this is most definitely running at a serious level. And since I came to Hawaii I’ve kept up this pace. It had been far too long since I’d been able to run these distances and keep up this kind of fixed schedule.

There are several reasons why, at a certain point in my life, I stopped running seriously. First of all, my life has been getting busier, and free time is increasingly at a premium. When I was younger it wasn’t as if I had as much free time as I wanted, but at least I didn’t have as many miscellaneous chores as I do now. I don’t know why, but the older you get, the busier you become. Another reason is that I’ve gotten more interested in triathlons, rather than marathons. Triathlons, of course, involve swimming and cycling in addition to running. The running part isn’t a problem for me, but in order to master the other two legs of the event I had to devote a great deal of time to training in swimming and biking. I had to start over from scratch with swimming, relearning the correct form, learning the right biking techniques, and training the necessary muscles. All of this took time and effort, and as a result I had less time to devote to running.

Probably the main reason, though, was that at a certain point I’d simply grown tired of it. I started running in the fall of 1982 and have been running since then for nearly twenty-three years. Over this period I’ve jogged almost every day, run in at least one marathon every year—twenty-three up till now—and participated in more long-distance races all around the world than I care to count. Long-distance running suits my personality, though, and of all the habits I’ve acquired over my lifetime I’d have to say this one has been the most helpful, the most meaningful. Running without a break for more than two decades has also made me stronger, both physically and emotionally.

The thing is, I’m not much for team sports. That’s just the way I am. Whenever I play soccer or baseball—actually, since becoming an adult this is hardly ever—I never feel comfortable. Maybe it’s because I don’t have any brothers, but I could never get into the kind of games you play with others. I’m also not very good at one-on-one sports like tennis. I enjoy squash, but generally when it comes to a game against someone, the competitive aspect makes me uncomfortable. And when it comes to martial arts, too, you can count me out.

Don’t misunderstand me—I’m not totally uncompetitive. It’s just that for some reason I never cared all that much whether I beat others or lost to them. This sentiment remained pretty much unchanged after I grew up. It doesn’t matter what field you’re talking about—beating somebody else just doesn’t do it for me. I’m much more interested in whether I reach the goals that I set for myself, so in this sense long-distance running is the perfect fit for a mindset like mine.

Marathon runners will understand what I mean. We don’t really care whether we beat any other particular runner. World-class runners, of course, want to outdo their closest rivals, but for your average, everyday runner, individual rivalry isn’t a major issue. I’m sure there are garden-variety runners whose desire to beat a particular rival spurs them on to train harder. But what happens if their rival, for whatever reason, drops out of the competition? Their motivation for running would disappear or at least diminish, and it’d be hard for them to remain runners for long.

Most ordinary runners are motivated by an individual goal, more than anything: namely, a time they want to beat. As long as he can beat that time, a runner will feel he’s accomplished what he set out to do, and if he can’t, then he’ll feel he hasn’t. Even if he doesn’t break the time he’d hoped for, as long as he has the sense of satisfaction at having done his very best—and, possibly, having made some significant discovery about himself in the process—then that in itself is an accomplishment, a positive feeling he can carry over to the next race.

The same can be said about my profession. In the novelist’s profession, as far as I’m concerned, there’s no such thing as winning or losing. Maybe numbers of copies sold, awards won, and critics’ praise serve as outward standards for accomplishment in literature, but none of them really matter. What’s crucial is whether your writing attains the standards you’ve set for yourself. Failure to reach that bar is not something you can easily explain away. When it comes to other people, you can always come up with a reasonable explanation, but you can’t fool yourself. In this sense, writing novels and running full marathons are very much alike. Basically a writer has a quiet, inner motivation, and doesn’t seek validation in the outwardly visible.

For me, running is both exercise and a metaphor. Running day after day, piling up the races, bit by bit I raise the bar, and by clearing each level I elevate myself. At least that’s why I’ve put in the effort day after day: to raise my own level. I’m no great runner, by any means. I’m at an ordinary—or perhaps more like mediocre—level. But that’s not the point. The point is whether or not I improved over yesterday. In long-distance running the only opponent you have to beat is yourself, the way you used to be.

Since my forties, though, this system of self-assessment has gradually changed. Simply put, I am no longer able to improve my time. I guess it’s inevitable, considering my age. At a certain age everybody reaches their physical peak. There are individual differences, but for the most part swimmers hit that watershed in their early twenties, boxers in their late twenties, and baseball players in their mid-thirties. It’s something everyone has to go through. Once I asked an ophthalmologist if anyone’s ever avoided getting farsighted when they got older. He laughed and said, “I’ve never met one yet.” It’s the same thing. (Fortunately, the peak for artists varies considerably. Dostoyevsky, for instance, wrote two of his most profound novels, The Possessed and The Brothers Karamazov, in the last few years of his life before his death at age sixty. Domenico Scarlatti wrote 555 piano sonatas during his lifetime, most of them when he was between the ages of fifty-seven and sixty-two.)

My peak as a runner came in my late forties. Before then I’d aimed at running a full marathon in three and a half hours, a pace of exactly one kilometer in five minutes, or one mile in eight. Sometimes I broke three and a half hours, sometimes not (more often not). Either way, I was able to steadily run a marathon in more or less that amount of time. Even when I thought I’d totally blown it, I’d still be in under three hours and forty minutes. Even if I hadn’t trained so much or wasn’t in the best of shape, exceeding four hours was inconceivable. Things continued at that stable plateau for a while, but before long they started to change. I’d train as much as before but found it increasingly hard to break three hours and forty minutes. It was taking me five and a half minutes to run one kilometer, and I was inching closer to the four-hour mark to finish a marathon. Frankly, this was a bit of a shock. What was going on here? I didn’t think it was because I was aging. In everyday life I never felt like I was getting physically weaker. But no matter how much I might deny it or try to ignore it, the numbers were retreating, step by step.

Besides, as I said earlier, I’d become more interested in other sports such as triathlons and squash. Just running all the time couldn’t be good for me, I’d figured, deciding it would be better to add variety to my routine and develop a more all-around physical regimen. I hired a private swimming coach who started me off with the basics, and I learned how to swim faster and more smoothly than before. My muscles reacted to the new environment, and my physique began noticeably changing. Meanwhile, like the tide going out, my marathon times slowly but surely continued to slow. And I found I didn’t enjoy running as much as I used to. A steady fatigue opened up between me and the very notion of running. A sense of disappointment set in that all my hard work wasn’t paying off, that there was something obstructing me, like a door that was usually open suddenly slammed in my face. I named this condition runner’s blues. I’ll go into more detail later on about what sort of blues this was.

It’s been ten years since I last lived in Cambridge (which was from 1993 to 1995, back when Bill Clinton was president). When I saw the Charles River again, a desire to run swept over me. Generally, unless some great change takes place, rivers always look about the same, and the Charles River in particular looked totally unchanged. Time had passed, students had come and gone, I’d aged ten years, and there’d literally been a lot of water under the bridge. But the river has remained unaltered. The water still flows swiftly, and silently, toward Boston Harbor. The water soaks the shoreline, making the summer grasses grow thick, which help feed the waterfowl, and it flows languidly, ceaselessly, under the old bridges, reflecting clouds in summer and bobbing with floes in winter—and silently heads toward the ocean.

After I had unpacked everything, gone through the red tape involved in moving here, and settled into life in Cambridge, I got down to some serious running again. Breathing in the crisp, bracing, early-morning air, I felt once again the joy of running on familiar ground. The sounds of my footsteps, my breathing and heartbeats, all blended together in a unique polyrhythm. The Charles River is a holy spot for regatta racing, and there is always someone rowing on the river. I like to race them. Most of the time, of course, the boats are faster. But when a single scull is leisurely rowing I can give it a good run for its money.

Maybe because it’s the home of the Boston Marathon, Cambridge is full of runners. The jogging path along the Charles goes on forever, and if you wanted to, you could run for hours. The problem is, it’s also used by cyclists, so you have to watch out for speeding bikes whizzing past from behind. At various places, too, there are cracks in the pavement you have to make sure you don’t trip over, and a couple of long traffic signals you can get stuck at, which can put a kink in your run. Otherwise, it’s a wonderful jogging path.

Sometimes when I run, I listen to jazz, but usually it’s rock, since its beat is the best accompaniment to the rhythm of running. I prefer the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Gorillaz, and Beck, and oldies like Creedence Clearwater Revival and the Beach Boys. Music with as simple a rhythm as possible. A lot of runners now use iPods, but I prefer the MD player I’m used to. It’s a little bigger than an iPod and can’t hold nearly as much data, but it works for me. At this point I don’t want to mix music and computers. Just like it’s not good to mix friends and work, and sex.

As I mentioned, in July I ran 186 miles. It rained two days that month, and I spent two days on the road. And there were quite a few days when the weather was too muggy and hot to run. So all in all, running 186 miles wasn’t so bad. Not bad at all. If running 136 miles in a month amounts to serious running, then 186 miles must be rigorous running. The farther I ran, the more weight I lost, too. In two and a half months I dropped about seven pounds, and the bit of flab I was starting to see around my stomach disappeared. Picture going to the butcher shop, buying seven pounds of meat, and carrying it home. You get the idea. I had mixed emotions about carrying around that extra weight with me every day. If you live in Boston, Samuel Adams draft beer (Summer Ale) and Dunkin’ Donuts are essentials of life. But I discovered to my delight that even these indulgences can be offset by persistent exercise.

It might be a little silly for someone getting to be my age to put this into words, but I just want to make sure I get the facts down clearly: I’m the kind of person who likes to be by himself. To put a finer point on it, I’m the type of person who doesn’t find it painful to be alone. I find spending an hour or two every day running alone, not speaking to anyone, as well as four or five hours alone at my desk, to be neither difficult nor boring. I’ve had this tendency ever since I was young, when, given a choice, I much preferred reading books on my own or concentrating on listening to music over being with someone else. I could always think of things to do by myself.

Even so, after I got married at an early age (I was twenty-two) I gradually got used to living with someone else. After I left college I ran a bar, so I learned the importance of being with others and the obvious point that we can’t survive on our own. Gradually, then, though perhaps with my own spin on it, through personal experience I discovered how to be sociable. Looking back on that time now, I can see that during my twenties my worldview changed, and I matured. By sticking my nose into all sorts of places, I acquired the practical skills I needed to live. Without those ten tough years I don’t think I would have written novels, and even if I’d tried, I wouldn’t have been able to. Not that people’s personalities change that dramatically. The desire in me to be alone hasn’t changed. Which is why the hour or so I spend running, maintaining my own silent, private time, is important to help me keep my mental well-being. When I’m running I don’t have to talk to anybody and don’t have to listen to anybody. All I need to do is gaze at the scenery passing by. This is a part of my day I can't do without.

I’m often asked what I think about as I run. Usually the people who ask this have never run long distances themselves. I always ponder the question. What exactly do I think about when I’m running? I don’t have a clue. On cold days I guess I think a little about how cold it is. And about the heat on hot days. When I’m sad I think a little about sadness. When I’m happy I think a little about happiness. As I mentioned before, random memories come to me too. And occasionally, hardly ever, really, I get an idea to use in a novel. But really as I run, I don’t think much of anything worth mentioning.

I just run. I run in a void. Or maybe I should put it the other way: I run in order to acquire a void. But as you might expect, an occasional thought will slip into this void. People’s minds can’t be a complete blank. Human beings’ emotions are not strong or consistent enough to sustain a vacuum. What I mean is, the kinds of thoughts and ideas that invade my emotions as I run remain subordinate to that void. Lacking content, they are just random thoughts that gather around that central void.

The thoughts that occur to me while I’m running are like clouds in the sky. Clouds of all different sizes. They come and they go, while the sky remains the same sky as always. The clouds are mere guests in the sky that pass away and vanish, leaving behind the sky. The sky both exists and doesn’t exist. It has substance and at the same time doesn’t. And we merely accept that vast expanse and drink it in.

I’m in my late fifties now. When I was young, I never imagined the twenty-first century would actually come and that, all joking aside, I’d turn fifty. In theory, of course, it was self-evident that someday, if nothing else happened, the twenty-first century would roll around and I’d turn fifty. When I was young, being asked to imagine myself at fifty was as difficult as being asked to imagine, concretely, the world after death. Mick Jagger once boasted that “I’d rather be dead than still singing ‘Satisfaction’ when I’m forty-five.” But now he’s over sixty and still singing “Satisfaction.” Some people might find this funny, but not me. When he was young, Mick Jagger couldn’t imagine himself at forty-five. When I was young, I was the same. Can I laugh at Mick Jagger? No way. I just happen not to be a young rock singer. Nobody remembers what stupid things I might have said back then, so they’re not about to quote them back at me. That’s the only difference.

And now here I am living in this unimaginable world. It feels really strange, and I can’t tell if I’m fortunate or not. Maybe it doesn’t matter. For me—and for everybody else, probably—this is my first experience growing old, and the emotions I’m having, too, are all first-time feelings. If it were something I’d experienced before, then I’d be able to understand it more clearly, but this is the first time, so I can’t. For now all I can do is put off making any detailed judgments and accept things as they are. Just like I accept the sky, the clouds, and the river. And there’s also something kind of comical about it all, something you don’t want to discard completely.

As I mentioned before, competing against other people, whether in daily life or in my field of work, is just not the sort of lifestyle I’m after. Forgive me for stating the obvious, but the world is made up of all kinds of people. Other people have their own values to live by, and the same holds true with me. These differences give rise to disagreements, and the combination of these disagreements can give rise to even greater misunderstandings. As a result, sometimes people are unfairly criticized. This goes without saying. It’s not much fun to be misunderstood or criticized, but rather a painful experience that hurts people deeply.

As I’ve gotten older, though, I’ve gradually come to the realization that this kind of pain and hurt is a necessary part of life. If you think about it, it’s precisely because people are different from others that they’re able to create their own independent selves. Take me as an example. It’s precisely my ability to detect some aspects of a scene that other people can’t, to feel differently than others and choose words that differ from theirs, that’s allowed me to write stories that are mine alone. And because of this we have the extraordinary situation in which quite a few people read what I’ve written. So the fact that I’m me and no one else is one of my greatest assets. Emotional hurt is the price a person has to pay in order to be independent.

That’s what I basically believe, and I’ve lived my life accordingly. In certain areas of my life, I actively seek out solitude. Especially for someone in my line of work, solitude is, more or less, an inevitable circumstance. Sometimes, however, this sense of isolation, like acid spilling out of a bottle, can unconsciously eat away at a person’s heart and dissolve it. You could see it, too, as a kind of double-edged sword. It protects me, but at the same time steadily cuts away at me from the inside. I think in my own way I’m aware of this danger—probably through experience—and that’s why I’ve had to constantly keep my body in motion, in some cases pushing myself to the limit, in order to heal the loneliness I feel inside and to put it in perspective. Not so much as an intentional act, but as an instinctive reaction.

Let me be more specific.

When I’m criticized unjustly (from my viewpoint, at least), or when someone I’m sure will understand me doesn’t, I go running for a little longer than usual. By running longer it’s like I can physically exhaust that portion of my discontent. It also makes me realize again how weak I am, how limited my abilities are. I become aware, physically, of these low points. And one of the results of running a little farther than usual is that I become that much stronger. If I’m angry, I direct that anger toward myself. If I have a frustrating experience, I use that to improve myself. That’s the way I’ve always lived. I quietly absorb the things I’m able to, releasing them later, and in as changed a form as possible, as part of the story line in a novel.

I don’t think most people would like my personality. There might be a few—very few, I would imagine—who are impressed by it, but only rarely would anyone like it. Who in the world could possibly have warm feelings, or something like them, for a person who doesn’t compromise, who instead, whenever a problem crops up, locks himself away alone in a closet? But is it ever possible for a professional writer to be liked by people? I have no idea. Maybe somewhere in the world it is. It’s hard to generalize. For me, at least, as I’ve written novels over many years, I just can’t picture someone liking me on a personal level. Being disliked by someone, hated and despised, somehow seems more natural. Not that I’m relieved when that happens. Even I’m not happy when someone dislikes me.

But that’s another story. Let’s get back to running. I’ve gotten back into a running lifestyle again. I started seriously running and am now rigorously running. What this might mean for me, now that I’m in my late fifties, I don’t know yet. But I think it’s got to mean something. Maybe not anything profound, but there must be significance to it. Anyway, right now I’m running hard. I’ll wait till later to think about what it all means. (Putting off thinking about something is one of my specialties, a skill I’ve honed as I’ve grown older.) I shine my running shoes, rub some sunscreen on my face and neck, set my watch, and hit the road. With the trade winds wafting against my face, a white heron up above, its legs dutifully aligned as it crosses the sky, and me listening to my old favorite, the Lovin’ Spoonful.

As I was running I was struck by a thought: Even if my time in races doesn’t improve, there’s not much I can do about it. I’ve gotten older, and time has taken its toll. It’s nobody’s fault. Those are the rules of the game. Just as a river flows to the sea, growing older and slowing down are just part of the natural scenery, and I’ve got to accept it. It might not be a very enjoyable process, and what I discover as a result might not be all that pleasant. But what choice do I have, anyway? In my own way, I’ve enjoyed my life so far, even if I can’t say I’ve fully enjoyed it.

I’m not trying to brag or anything—who in the world would brag about something like this?—but I’m not the brightest person. I’m the kind of person who has to experience something physically, actually touch something, before I have a clear sense of it. No matter what it is, unless I see it with my own eyes I’m not convinced. I’m a physical, not intellectual, type of person. Of course I have a certain amount of intelligence—at least I think I do. If I totally lacked that there’d be no way I could write novels. But I’m not the type who operates through pure theory or logic, not the type whose energy source is intellectual speculation. Only when I’m given an actual physical burden and my muscles start to groan (and sometimes scream) does my comprehension meter shoot upward and I’m finally able to grasp something. Needless to say, it takes quite a bit of time, plus effort, to go through each stage, step by step, and arrive at a conclusion. Sometimes it takes too long, and by the time I’m convinced, it’s already too late. But what’re you going to do? That’s the kind of person I am.

As I run I tell myself to think of a river. And clouds. But essentially I’m not thinking of a thing. All I do is keep on running in my own cozy, homemade void, my own nostalgic silence. And this is a pretty wonderful thing. No matter what anybody else says.
















