This person, this self, this me, finally, was made somewhere else. Everything had come from somewhere else, and it would all go somewhere else. I was nothing but a pathway for the person known as me.
I don't know -- maybe the world has two different kinds of people, and for one kind the world is this completely logical, rice pudding place, and for the other it's all hit-or-miss macaroni gratin.
To keep on going, you have to keep up the rhythm.
What I saw wasn't a ghost. It was simply--myself. I can never forget how terrified I was that night, and whenever I remember it, this thought always springs to mind: that the most frightening thing in the world is our own self. What do you think?
I could disappear from the face of the earth, and the world would go on moving without the slightest twinge. Things were tremendously complicated, to be sure, but one thing was clear: no one needed me.
I guess I felt attached to my weakness. My pain and suffering too. Summer light, the smell of a breeze, the sound of cicadas - if I like these things, why should I apologize?
Everything, everything seemed once-upon-a-time.
I'm kind of a low-key guy. The spotlight doesn't suit me. I'm more of a side dish--cole slaw or French fries or a Wham! backup singer.
All of us are imperfect human beings living in an imperfect world.
There are three ways you can get along with a girl: one, shut up and listen to what she has to say; two, tell her you like what she's wearing; and three, treat her to really good food...If you do all that and still don't get the results you want, better give up.
Nothing so consumes a person as meaningless exertion
Genius or fool, you don't live in the world alone. You can hide underground or you can build a wall around yourself, but somebody's going to come along and screw up the works.
Aren't you afraid of dying?
Not really. I've watched lots of good-for-nothing, worthless people die, and if people like that can do it, then I should be able to handle it.
You got to know your limits. Once is enough, but you got to learn. A little caution never hurt anyone. A good woodsman has only one scar on him. No more, no less.
The thing I’m most afraid of is me. Of not knowing what I’m going to do. Of not knowing what I’m doing right now
Reality was utterly coolheaded and utterly lonely.
Waiting for your
answer is one of the most painful things I have ever been through. At
least let me know whether or not I hurt you.
The thoughts that occur to me while I’m running are like clouds in the sky. Clouds of all different sizes. They come and they go, while the sky remains the same sky always. The clouds are mere guests in the sky that pass away and vanish, leaving behind the sky.
Time flows in strange ways on Sundays, and sights become mysteriously distorted.
Our memory is made up of our individual memories and our collective memories. The two are intimately linked. And history is our collective memory. If our collective memory is taken from us - is rewritten - we lose the ability to sustain our true selves.
Understanding is but the sum of misunderstandings.
Being active every day makes it easier to hear that inner voice.
I didn't feel like I was in my own body; my body was just a lonely, temporary container I happened to be borrowing.
The things she most wanted to tell him would lose their meaning the moment she put them into words.
Hundreds of butterflies flitted in and out of sight like short-lived punctuation marks in a stream of consciousness without beginning or end.
Everything just blows me away.
Was the earth put here just to nourish human loneliness?
For a certain kind of person, love begins from something tiny or silly.
From something like that or it doesn't begin at all.
It just happens to be the way that I'm made. I have to write things down to feel I fully comprehend them.
The others in the dorm thought I wanted to be a writer, because I was always alone with a book, but I had no such ambition. There was nothing I wanted to be.
Memory is so crazy! It's like we've got these drawers crammed with tons of useless stuff. Meanwhile, all the really important things we just keep forgetting, one after the other.
When someone is trying very hard to get something, they don't. And when they're running away from something as hard as they can, it usually catches up with them.
I'll write to you. A super-long letter, like in an old-fashioned novel
Quizás aun no te comprenda. Pero, con un poco de tiempo, llegaré a entenderte. Y no habrá nadie en el mundo que te comprenda mejor que yo.
No matter how quiet and conformist a person’s life seems, there’s always a time in the past when they reached an impasse. A time when they went a little crazy. I guess people need that sort of stage in their lives.
People soon get tired of things that aren't boring, but not of what is boring.
When you fall in love, the natural thing to do is give yourself to it.
Everything has boundaries. The same holds true with thought. You shouldn't fear boundaries, but you should not be afraid of destroying them. That's what is most important if you want to be free: respect for and exasperation with boundaries.
Autumn finally arrived. And when it did, I came to a decision. Something had to give: I couldn't keep on living like this.
Everyone just keeps on disappearing. Some things vanish, like they were cut away. Others fade slowly into the mist. And all that remains is a desert.
Results aside, the ability to have complete faith in another human being is one of the finest qualities a person can possess.
I am a flawed human being - a far more flawed human being than you
realize.
A person's last moments are an important thing. You can't choose how you're born but you can choose how you die.
When I wake up, my pillow’s cold and damp with tears. But tears for what? I have no idea.
Once you let yourself grow close to someone, cutting the ties could be painful.
It's my motto for life. 'Walk slowly; drink lots of water.
Some things are forgotten, some things disappear, some things die.
We survived. You and I. And those who survive have a duty. Our duty is to do our best to keep on living. Even if our lives are not perfect.
What matters is deciding in your heart to accept another person completely. When you do that, it is always the first time and the last.
What we see before us is just one tiny part of the world. We get in the habit of thinking, this is the world, but that's not true at all. The real world is a much darker and deeper place than this, and much of it is occupied by jellyfish and things.
But you know Hajime, some feelings cause us pain because they remain.
In dreams begins responsiblities.
Don't pointless things have a place, too, in this far-from-perfect world? Remove everything pointless from an imperfect life, and it'd lose even its imperfection.
Open your eyes, train your ears, use your head. If a mind you have, then use it while you can.
People whose freedom is taken away always end up hating somebody.
Only where there is disillusionment and depression and sorrow does happiness arise; without the despair of loss, there is no hope.
Even castles in the sky can do with a fresh coat of paint.
The journey I'm taking is inside me. Just like blood travels down veins, what I'm seeing is my inner self and what seems threatening is just the echo of the fear in my heart.
The dead will always be dead, but we have to go on living.
When the fire goes out, you'll start feeling the cold. You'll wake up whether you want to or not.
Sometimes taking time is actually a shortcut.
Losing you is most difficult for me, but the nature of my love for you is what matters. If it distorts into half-truth, then perhaps it is better not to love you. I must keep my mind but loose you.
The body is not the only target of rape. Violence does not always take a visible form, and not all wounds gush blood.
Whenever she felt like crying, she would instead become angry—at someone else or at herself—which meant that it was rare for her to shed tears.
I may be the type who manages to grab all the pointless things in life but lets the really important things slip away.
Distance might not solve anything, no matter how far you run.
Deep rivers run quiet.
Possibilities are like cancer. The more I think about them, the more they multiply, and there's no way to stop them. I'm out of control.
How much do you love me?' Midori asked.
'Enough to melt all the tigers in the world to butter,' I said.
I never trust people with no appetite. It's like they're always holding something back on you.
Never let fear and stupid pride make you lose someone who's precious to you.
Everyone, deep in their hearts, is waiting for the end of the world to come.
I don't know, there's something about you. Say there's an hourglass: the sand's about to run out. Someone like you can always be counted on to turn the thing over.
There weren't any curtains in the windows, and the books that didn't fit into the bookshelf lay piled on the floor like a bunch of intellectual refugees.
Mediocrity's like a spot on a shirt—it never comes off.
I think that my job is to observe people and the world, and not to judge them. I always hope to position myself away from so-called conclusions. I would like to leave everything wide open to all the possibilities in the world.
Death was not the opposite of life. It was already here, within my being, it had always been here, and no struggle would permit me to forget that.
I’ve built a wall around me, never letting anybody inside and trying not to venture outside myself
But if something did happen, it happened. Whether it's right or wrong. I accept everything that happens, and that's how I became the person I am now.
If you never noticed, it never happened.
I go back to the reading room, where I sink down in the sofa and into the world of The Arabian Nights. Slowly, like a movie fadeout, the real world evaporates. I'm alone, inside the world of the story. My favourite feeling in the world.
Even so, there were times I saw freshness and beauty. I could smell the air, and I really loved rock 'n' roll. Tears were warm, and girls were beautiful, like dreams. I liked movie theaters, the darkness and intimacy, and I liked the deep, sad summer nights.
A gentleman is someone who does not what he wants to do, but what he should do.
We each have a special something we can get only at a special time of our life. like a small flame. A careful, fortunate few cherish that flame, nurture it, hold it as a torch to light their way. But once that flame goes out, it’s gone forever.
Life is so uncertain: you never know what could happen. One way to deal with that is to keep your pajamas washed.
When people tell a lie about something, they have to make up a bunch of lies to go with the first one. ‘Mythomania’ is the word for it.
Unclose your mind. You are not a prisoner. You are a bird in fight, searching the skies for dreams.
No matter how much time passes, no matter what takes place in the interim, there are some things we can never assign to oblivion, memories we can never rub away.
When I'm running I don't have to talk to anybody and don't have to listen to anybody. This is a part of my day I can't do without.
I'll never see them again. I know that. And they know that. And knowing this, we say farewell.
With my eyes closed, I would touch a familiar book and draw its fragrance deep inside me. This was enough to make me happy.
As long as there's such a thing as time, everybody's damaged in the end, changed into something else. It always happens, sooner or later.
I'm often asked what I think about as I run. Usually the people who ask this have never run long distances themselves. I always ponder the question. What exactly do I think about when I'm running? I don't have a clue.
Knowledge and ability were tools, not things to show off.
When you are used to the kind of life -of never getting anything you want- you stop knowing what it is you want.
If you're young and talented, it's like you have wings.
If I stayed here, something inside me would be lost forever—something I couldn't afford to lose. It was like a vague dream, a burning, unfulfilled desire. The kind of dream people have only when they're seventeen.
Maybe it's just hiding somewhere. Or gone on a trip to come home. But falling in love is always a pretty crazy thing. It might appear out of the blue and just grab you. Who knows — maybe even tomorrow.
People die all the time. Life is a lot more fragile than we think. So you should treat others in a way that leaves no regrets. Fairly, and if possible, sincerely. It's too easy not to make the effort, then weep and wring your hands after the person dies.
If I have left a wound inside you, it is not just your wound but mine as well.
When you fall in love, the natural thing to do is give yourself to it. That's what I think. It's just a form of sincerity.
Life doesn't require ideals. It requires standards of action.
No matter how honestly you open up to someone, there are still things you cannot reveal.
A person learns how to love himself through the simple acts of loving and being loved by someone else.
Still, being able to feel pain was good, he thought. It's when you can't even feel pain anymore that you're in real trouble.
I'd be smiling and chatting away, and my mind would be floating around somewhere else, like a balloon with a broken string.
With each passing moment I'm becoming part of the past. There is no future for me, just the past steadily accumulating.
Music brings a warm glow to my vision, thawing mind and muscle from their endless wintering.
It's easy to forget things you don't need anymore.
Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional. Say you’re running and you think, ‘Man, this hurts, I can’t take it anymore. The ‘hurt’ part is an unavoidable reality, but whether or not you can stand anymore is up to the runner himself.
A strange, terrific force unlike anything I've ever experienced is sprouting in my heart, taking root there, growing. Shut up behind my rib cage, my warm heart expands and contracts independent of my will--over and over.
If you really want to know something, you have to be willing to pay the price.
In the world we live in, what we know and what we don't know are like Siamese twins, inseparable, existing in a state of confusion.
But there are certain meanings that are lost forever the moment they are explained in words.
Life is a lot more fragile than we think. So you should treat others in a way that leaves no regrets. Fairly, and if possible, sincerely.
The sad truth is that certain types of things can't go backward. Once they start going forward, no matter what you do, they can't go back the way they were. If even one little thing goes awry, then that's how it will stay forever.
Beyond the edge of the world there’s a space where emptiness and substance neatly overlap, where past and future form a continuous, endless loop. And, hovering about, there are signs no one has ever read, chords no one has ever heard.
All I do is keep on running in my own cozy, homemade void, my own nostalgic silence. And this is a pretty wonderful thing. No matter what anybody else says.
Somewhere in his body--perhaps in the marrow of his bones--he would continue to feel her absence.
Some things in life are too complicated to explain in any language.
Nothing in the real world is as beautiful as the illusions of a person about to lose consciousness.
But what seems like a reasonable distance to one person might feel too far to somebody else.
Loneliness becomes an acid that eats away at you.
Which is why I am writing this book. To think. To understand. It just happens to be the way I'm made. I have to write things down to feel I fully comprehend them.
What I want is for the two of us to meet somewhere by chance one day, like, passing on the street, or getting on the same bus.
That’s how stories happen — with a turning point, an unexpected twist. There’s only one kind of happiness, but misfortune comes in all shapes and sizes. It’s like Tolstoy said. Happiness is an allegory, unhappiness a story.
As we go through life we gradually discover who we are, but the more we discover, the more we lose ourselves.
The light of morning decomposes everything.
I've always done whatever I felt like doing in life. People may try to stop me, and convince me I'm wrong, but I won't change.
If they invent a car that runs on stupid jokes, you could go far.
We knew exactly what we wanted in each other. And even so, it ended. One day it stopped, as if the film simply slipped off the reel.
Have you ever had that feeling—that you’d like to go to a whole different place and become a whole different self?
Don't pointless things have a place, too, in this far-from-perfect world?
There are ways of dying that don't end in funerals. Types of death you can't smell.
I am nothing. I’m like someone who’s been thrown into the ocean at night, floating all alone. I reach out, but no one is there. I call out, but no one answers. I have no connection to anything.
Things outside you are projections of what's inside you, and what's inside you is a projection of what's outside. So when you step into the labyrinth outside you, at the same time you're stepping into the labyrinth inside.
It's because of you when I'm in bed in the morning that I can wind my spring and tell myself I have to live another good day.
In a sense, I'm the one who ruined me: I did it myself.
We're both looking at the same moon, in the same world. We're connected to reality by the same line. All I have to do is quietly draw it towards me.
She's letting out her feelings. The scary thing is not being able to do that. When your feelings build up and harden and die inside, then you're in big trouble.
There's no such thing as perfect writing, just like there's no such thing as perfect despair.
Everyone may be ordinary, but they're not normal.
Each person feels pain in his own way, each has his own scars.
Even chance meetings are the result of karma… Things in life are fated by our previous lives. That even in the smallest events there’s no such thing as coincidence.
I'm not so weird to me.
People leave strange little memories of themselves behind when they die.
Not that we were incompatible: we just had nothing to talk about.
If you think God’s there, He is. If you don’t, He isn’t. And if that’s what God’s like, I wouldn’t worry about it.
If you can't understand it without an explanation, you can't understand it with an explanation.
So what’s wrong if there happens to be one guy in the world who enjoys trying to understand you?
In dreams you don't need to make any distinctions between things. Not at all. Boundaries don't exist. So in dreams there are hardly ever collisions. Even if there are, they don't hurt. Reality is different. Reality bites. Reality, reality.
Life is not like water. Things in life don't necessarily flow over the shortest possible route.
Find me now. Before someone else does.
In a place far away from anyone or anywhere, I drifted off for a moment.
Sometimes I get real lonely sleeping with you.
Body cells replace themselves every month. Even at this very moment. Most everything you think you know about me is nothing more than memories.
You can keep as quiet as you like, but one of these days somebody is going to find you.
You can hide memories, but you can't erase the history that produced them.
When you come out of the storm, you won’t be the same person who walked in. That’s what this storm’s all about.
I didn't have much to say to anybody but kept to myself and my books. With my eyes closed, I would touch a familiar book and draw it's fragrance deep inside me. This was enough to make me happy.
I said nothing for a time, just ran my fingertips along the edge of the human-shaped emptiness that had been left inside me.
What we seek is some kind of compensation for what we put up with.
The sky grew darker, painted blue on blue, one stroke at a time, into deeper and deeper shades of night.
It's hard to tell the difference between sea and sky, between voyager and sea. Between reality and the workings of the heart.
Being with her I feel a pain, like a frozen knife stuck in my chest. An awful pain, but the funny thing is I'm thankful for it. It's like that frozen pain and my very existence are one.
The pain is an anchor, mooring me here.
It is not that the meaning cannot be explained. But there are certain meanings that are lost forever the moment they are explained in words.
So the fact that I’m me and no one else is one of my greatest assets. Emotional hurt is the price a person has to pay in order to be independent.
I realize full well how hard it must be to go on living alone in a place from which someone has left you, but there is nothing so cruel in this world as the desolation of having nothing to hope for.
Even if we could turn back, we'd probably never end up where we started.
Most everything you think you know about me is nothing more than memories.
If you're in pitch blackness, all you can do is sit tight until your eyes get used to the dark
What do you think? I'm not a starfish or a pepper tree. I'm a living, breathing human being. Of course I've been in love.
No matter how far you travel, you can never get away from yourself.
Memories and thoughts age, just as people do. But certain thoughts can never age, and certain memories can never fade.
I'm a very ordinary human being; I just happen to like reading books.
Spend your money on the things money can buy. Spend your time on the things money can’t buy.
Only the Dead stay seventeen forever.
What a terrible thing it is to wound someone you really care for and to do it so unconsciously.
Chance encounters are what keep us going.
A certain type of perfection can only be realized through a limitless accumulation of the imperfect.
No matter what they wish for, no matter how far they go, people can never be anything but themselves. That's all.
That's what the world is , after all: an endless battle of contrasting memories.
two people can sleep in the same bed and still be alone when they close their eyes
Sometimes I feel so- I don’t know - lonely. The kind of helpless feeling when everything you’re used to has been ripped away. Like there’s no more gravity, and I’m left to drift in outer space with no idea where I’m going’
Like a little lost Sputnik?’
I guess so.
Narrow minds devoid of imagination. Intolerance, theories cut off from reality, empty terminology, usurped ideals, inflexible systems. Those are the things that really frighten me. What I absolutely fear and loathe.
The most important thing we learn at school is the fact that the most important things can't be learned at school.
As time goes on, you'll understand. What lasts, lasts; what doesn't, doesn't. Time solves most things. And what time can't solve, you have to solve yourself.
Not just beautiful, though--the stars are like the trees in the forest, alive and breathing. And they're watching me.
I have a million things to talk to you about. All I want in this world is you. I want to see you and talk. I want the two of us to begin everything from the beginning.
The answer is dreams. Dreaming on and on. Entering the world of dreams and never coming out. Living in dreams for the rest of time.
I can bear any pain as long as it has meaning.
In this world, there are things you can only do alone, and things you can only do with somebody else. It's important to combine the two in just the right amount.
Don't you think it would be wonderful to get rid of everything and everybody and just go some place where you don't know a soul?
In everybody’s life there’s a point of no return. And in a very few cases, a point where you can’t go forward anymore. And when we reach that point, all we can do is quietly accept the fact. That’s how we survive.
Every one of us is losing something precious to us. Lost opportunities, lost possibilities, feelings we can never get back again. That’s part of what it means to be alive.
Despite your best efforts, people are going to be hurt when it's time for them to be hurt.
here she is, all mine, trying her best to give me all she can. How could I ever hurt her? But I didn’t understand then. That I could hurt somebody so badly she would never recover. That a person can, just by living, damage another human being beyond repair.
Death is not the opposite of life, but a part of it.
If you can love someone with your whole heart, even one person, then there's salvation in life. Even if you can't get together with that person.
I have this strange feeling that I'm not myself anymore. It's hard to put into words, but I guess it's like I was fast asleep, and someone came, disassembled me, and hurriedly put me back together again. That sort of feeling.
Listen up - there's no war that will end all wars.
Unfortunately, the clock is ticking, the hours are going by. The past increases, the future recedes. Possibilities decreasing, regrets mounting.
Silence, I discover, is something you can actually hear.
I was always hungry for love. Just once, I wanted to know what it was like to get my fill of it -- to be fed so much love I couldn't take any more. Just once.
I want you always to remember me. Will you remember that I existed, and that I stood next to you here like this?
But I didn't understand then. That I could hurt somebody so badly she would never recover. That a person can, just by living, damage another human being beyond repair.
It's like Tolstoy said. Happiness is an allegory, unhappiness a story.
Sometimes when I look at you, I feel I'm gazing at a distant star.
It's dazzling, but the light is from tens of thousands of years ago.
Maybe the star doesn't even exist any more. Yet sometimes that light seems more real to me than anything.
Don't feel sorry for yourself. Only assholes do that.
I dream. Sometimes I think that's the only right thing to do.
Nobody likes being alone that much. I don't go out of my way to make friends, that's all. It just leads to disappointment.
Why do people have to be this lonely? What's the point of it all? Millions of people in this world, all of them yearning, looking to others to satisfy them, yet isolating themselves. Why? Was the earth put here just to nourish human loneliness?
If you remember me, then I don't care if everyone else forgets.
Memories warm you up from the inside. But they also tear you apart.
If you only read the books that everyone else is reading, you can only think what everyone else is thinking.
She was a quiet little creature living deep in the woods, with pale wings like the shadow of a spirit
Intelligent teenage girls were often instinctively theatrical, purposely eccentric, mouthing highly suggestive words to confuse people
I understood for the first time that I didnt understand what I thought I understood Seiji Ozawa, Absolutely on Music: Conversations with Seiji Ozawa
But it has finally hit me: she is neither a concept nor a symbol nor a metaphor. She actually exists: she has warm flesh and a spirit that moves. I never should have lost sight of that warmth and that movement
Its impossible for me to recall. I remember the sights and sounds and smells clearly enough, but the names of the towns are gone, as well as any sense of the order in which I traveled from place to place
Time passes slowly. Nobody says a word, everyone lost in quiet reading. One person sits at a desk jotting down notes, but the rest are sitting there silently, not moving, totally absorbed. Just like me
An empty shell. Those were the first words that sprang to mind. .... Something incredibly important - .. - had disappeared from Miu for good. Leaving behind not life, but its absenc
Her cry was the saddest sound of orgasm that I had ever heard
She was the kind of person who took care of things by herself. Shed never ask anybody for advice or help. It wasnt a matter of pride, I think. She just did what seemed natural to her
Remove everything pointless from an imperfect life and itd lose even its imperfection
Look at the rain long enough, with no thoughts in your head, and you gradually feel your body falling loose, shaking free of the world of reality. Rain has the power to hypnotize
What I think is this: You should give up looking for lost cats and start searching for the other half of your shadow
Were all kind of weird and twisted and drowning
When its raining like this, said Naoko, it feels as if were the only ones in the world. I wish it would just keep raining so the three of us could stay together
I think that my job is to observe people and the world, and not to judge them. I always hope to position myself away from so-called conclusions. I would like to leave everything wide open to all the possibilities in the world
I wonder what ants do on rainy days?
Id be smiling and chatting away, and my mind would be floating around somewhere else, like a balloon with a broken string
Even chance meetings are the result of karma Things in life are fated by our previous lives. That even in the smallest events theres no such thing as coincidence
